Add version and request type to protocol identifier for DC API (#381)
openid/OpenID4VP: openid-4-verifiable-presentations-1_0.md

## Protocol

> To use OpenID4VP with the Digital Credentials API (DC API), the exchange protocol value has the following format: `urn:openid:protocol:oid4vp:<version>:<request-type>`. The `<version>` field adheres to semantic versioning, and `<request-type>` explicitly specifies the type of request. This approach eliminates the need for wallets to perform implicit parameter matching to accurately identify the version and the expected request and response parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use OpenID4VP with the Digital Credentials API (DC API), the exchange protocol value has the following format: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:<version>:<request-type>`. The `<version>` field adheres to semantic versioning, and `<request-type>` explicitly specifies the type of request. This approach eliminates the need for wallets to perform implicit parameter matching to accurately identify the version and the expected request and response parameters.
```

Author: If there are no requirements, I would use the shortest version possible, e.g., `urn:openid4vp:1.0:signed`, `urn:openid4vp:1.0:unsigned`. What do you think @c2bo @timcappalli ?

Reviewer 2: Fine with dropping protocol but I believe keeping the org name is common practice. If length is the concern, maybe just use "oidf"? So it would be `urn:oidf:openid4vp:1.0:signed`.

@selfissued should weigh in here.

Reviewer: I am happy with either one.

Adding the `oidf` seems to be a bit cleaner in terms of namespacing, but I don't think it's likely to encounter a naming clash here, so I guess `urn:openid4vp:1.0:signed` would be fine as well if we need/want to optimize for size?

Reviewer 2: so there is some OIDF precedent. CIBA defines a URN-based grant type that includes both the organization and the type (in this case `params`): `urn:openid:params:grant-type:ciba`. There's also `urn:openid:params:jwt:claim:auth_req_id` and `urn:openid:params:jwt:claim:rt_hash`. 

So if we wanted to be consistent with other OIDF specs, I think we'd want it to be `urn:openid:protocol:oid4vp:1.0:signed`. 

@selfissued @ve7jtb any comments on this?

Author: Current proposal is:
* Unsigned requests: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:1.0:unsigned`
* Signed requests: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:1.0:signed`

> To use OpenID4VP with the Digital Credentials API (DC API), the exchange protocol value has the following format: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:<version>:<request-type>`. The `<version>` field adheres to semantic versioning, and `<request-type>` explicitly specifies the type of request. This approach eliminates the need for wallets to perform implicit parameter matching to accurately identify the version and the expected request and response parameters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use OpenID4VP with the Digital Credentials API (DC API), the exchange protocol value has the following format: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:<version>:<request-type>`. The `<version>` field adheres to semantic versioning, and `<request-type>` explicitly specifies the type of request. This approach eliminates the need for Wallets to perform implicit parameter matching to accurately identify the version and the expected request and response parameters.
```

> The value `1` MUST be used for the `<version>` field to indicate the request and response conform to this version of the specification. For `<request-type>`, unsigned requests, as defined in (#unsigned_request), MUST use `unsigned`, and signed requests, as defined in (#signed_request), MUST use `signed`.

Reviewer 4: I think we just need to be careful here as we hope that v1.1 of OID4VP will use '1' for version too, so I suggest instead of 'confirm to this version' we use 'compatible with this version':

```suggestion
The value `1` MUST be used for the `<version>` field to indicate the request and response are compatible with this version of the specification. For `<request-type>`, unsigned requests, as defined in (#unsigned_request), MUST use `unsigned`, and signed requests, as defined in (#signed_request), MUST use `signed`.
```

The following exchange protocol values are defined by this specification:

> * Unsigned requests: `urn:openid:protocol:oid4vp:1.0:unsigned`
> * Signed requests: `urn:openid:protocol:oid4vp:1.0:signed`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Unsigned requests: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:1.0:unsigned`
* Signed requests: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:1.0:signed`
```

> * Signed requests: `urn:openid:protocol:oid4vp:1.0:signed`

Reviewer 5: What if the wallet considers a request unsigned because it can’t verify the signature? Also, could you explain the impact of this on the session transcript? Does the wallet include the client ID from the parameters when the protocol identifier indicates a signed request, even if the signature isn’t verified? In my opinion, this will have some negative security implications. I believe this PR is not compatible with the session transcript PR (which was already approved). I would be okay with reopening the session transcript PR and removing the client ID from the session transcript if that is what you want to do.

Author: I'd assume that for signed requests, the wallet will need to include the `client_id` in the `SessionTranscript` in all cases. I'd further assume that if the wallet cannot verify the signed request according to the client ID scheme that was used, it would decline the request.

Are you suggesting that the wallet can choose to skip the verification of the signed request according to the client ID scheme in some cases?

Reviewer 5: Assuming multiple wallets with different credentials can satisfy a request, and the RP doesn’t know which combination wallet-credential the user chooses, if the RP signs with the trusted schema of Wallet 1 under a context of issuing credential 1, and the user selects Wallet2-credential2 that doesn’t trust/know the signature scheme used by the RP, Wallet 2 should be able to skip verification and consider the request unsigned.

Author: In my opinion, supporting this might require additional considerations. In your scenario, the RP does not know whether the wallet verifies the request. The RP provides a signed request along with a corresponding Client ID and expects this Client ID to be used in the response (via `SessionTranscript`) after the request has been verified according to the Client ID scheme.

For instance, if the wallet switches from x509_san_dns to web origin, this change would need to be communicated in the response through the protocol. Otherwise, the RP would not know which Client ID to use in the `SessionTranscript`. Right?

I’m not sure if this falls within the scope of this PR, the `SessionTranscript` PR, or if it should be treated as a separate feature altogether. Allowing the wallet to downgrade the verification procedure could impact security and potentially introduce attack vectors. Wouldn’t that require further discussion and clarification?

Reviewer 5: II believe the RP shouldn’t rely on knowing if the Wallet successfully performed the signature verification. This could be risky. I also agree with the session transcript, which raises the question of whether we should include client ID in the session transcript at all.

If you think this isn’t within the scope of this PR, I’m happy to move the discussion elsewhere. For me, something is signed if the signature can be verified, not because the protocol says it is.

Author: I think this PR is really just about providing a version and request type to the request, so it makes parsing the request and generating the expected response easier which is why I would prefer to have this discussion elsewhere.

> * Unsigned requests: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:v1:unsigned`
> * Signed requests: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:v1:signed`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Unsigned requests: `urn:openid:dcapi-protocol:openid4vp:v1:unsigned`
* Signed requests: `urn:openid:dcapi-protocol:openid4vp:v1:signed`
```

> * Signed requests: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:1.0:signed`

Reviewer 7: and what of #308?

> * Signed requests: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:1.0:signed`

Author: IMO, the version identifier does not have to match the OID4VP version. In this regards, we might have to think about if this PR should really set the version to 1.0 already or if we should start with 0.1 first.

> * Signed requests: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:1.0:signed`

Reviewer 2: The version in the protocol identifier will need to be mapped back to a specification in the registry, so the version needs to at a minimum be defined somewhere in the spec, if its not going to the be the spec version itself.

> * Signed requests: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:1.0:signed`

Reviewer 7: Or, and hear me out, having that level of specificity in the identifier is not a good idea.

> To use OpenID4VP with the Digital Credentials API (DC API), the exchange protocol value has the following format: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:<version>:<request-type>`. The `<version>` field adheres to semantic versioning, and `<request-type>` explicitly specifies the type of request. This approach eliminates the need for wallets to perform implicit parameter matching to accurately identify the version and the expected request and response parameters.
> 
> The value `1.0` MUST be used for the `<version>` field to indicate the request and response conform to this version of the specification. For `<request-type>`, unsigned requests, as defined in (#unsigned_request), MUST use `unsigned`, and signed requests, as defined in (#signed_request), MUST use `signed`.
> 
> The following exchange protocol values are defined by this specification:
> 
> * Unsigned requests: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:1.0:unsigned`
> * Signed requests: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:1.0:signed`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
To use OpenID4VP over the DC API, the value of the exchange protocol used with the Digital Credentials API (DC API), is `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp`.
```

Reviewer 2: Disagree with this change. One of the two core requirements of the structured protocol identifier is version number.

> * Signed requests: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:1.0:signed`

Reviewer 6: it increasingly seems better long-term not to include both version and signed/unsigned in the protocol identifier:
- no version, because for 1.0, we know there will be backward compatible 1.1, 1.2, etc. and having to maintain those most likely will turn out to be an unnecessary maintenance overhead.
- no signed/unsigned because wallets already need to differentiate signed/unsigned requests and is not worth the complexity of asking the platforms to support both.

```suggestion
To use OpenID4VP over the DC API, the value of the exchange protocol used with the Digital Credentials API (DC API), is `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp`.
```

> To use OpenID4VP with the Digital Credentials API (DC API), the exchange protocol value has the following format: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:<version>:<request-type>`. The `<version>` field adheres to semantic versioning, and `<request-type>` explicitly specifies the type of request. This approach eliminates the need for wallets to perform implicit parameter matching to accurately identify the version and the expected request and response parameters.
> 
> The value `1.0` MUST be used for the `<version>` field to indicate the request and response conform to this version of the specification. For `<request-type>`, unsigned requests, as defined in (#unsigned_request), MUST use `unsigned`, and signed requests, as defined in (#signed_request), MUST use `signed`.
> 
> The following exchange protocol values are defined by this specification:
> 
> * Unsigned requests: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:1.0:unsigned`
> * Signed requests: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:1.0:signed`

Reviewer 6: it increasingly seems better long-term not to include both version and signed/unsigned in the protocol identifier:
- no version, because for 1.0, we know there will be backward compatible 1.1, 1.2, etc. and having to maintain those most likely will turn out to be an unnecessary maintenance overhead.
- no signed/unsigned because wallets already need to differentiate signed/unsigned requests and is not worth the complexity of asking the platforms to support both.

```suggestion
To use OpenID4VP over the DC API, the value of the exchange protocol used with the Digital Credentials API (DC API), is `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp`.
```

Reviewer 8: Seems much better for a wallet to not even to have to start parsing a request if it knows it cannot support the options being presented, rather than to always have to parse requests it subsequently finds out it cannot support

Reviewer 9: If not in the protocol string (so that platforms/wallet don't have to support multiple "protocols"), I would like to see the signed vs unsigned indication somewhere in the request

It feels like bad practice to have wallets determine the type of request by failing to parse the request and then trying the other option. For example, this would make it hard to debug (and print easy-to-understand log messages) for truly malformed requests, since that could mean either: the request is malformed, or it is of the other type...

Reviewer 9: For the version: I agree with the comment from [awoie](https://github.com/awoie) [yesterday](https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VP/pull/381/files#r1924169709) essentially stating that the OpenID4VP spec version and the "API" version might be different concepts. 

If theres agreement with that, we would just need to find some versioning system that each OpenID4VP Spec version is in charge of clearly indicating (and is semantically different from the OpenID4VP major.minor scheme to avoid having folks correlate the two concepts).

I liked `v1`, and any non-backwards compatible change in the spec can be update the "API" version to `v2`

> * Signed requests: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:1.0:signed`

Reviewer 6: In this thread please comment which option you support ie "+1 to 1 and B" etc.

agreement that there is a need to differentiate major versions.
1. version is part of URN, i.e., `:1.0`
2. version is part of protocol part, i.e. `:openid4vp` and `:openid4vp2` or something
3. not a URN, but just `openid4vp` and `openid4vp2`

no agreement to differentiate signed/unsigned in the URN
A. signed is part of URN, i.e., `:signed`, `:unsigned`
B. no indication of signed/unsigned in the URN

> * Signed requests: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:1.0:signed`

Reviewer 2: I think the questions are:

- Should version number be in the protocol identifier (y/n)
- What specificity should the version number be? (major, minor / just major)
- Should the request type (e.g. `signed` or `unsigned`) be included in the protocol identifier (y/n)
- What format should the protocol identifier be? ( urn, unstructured string)

> * Signed requests: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:1.0:signed`

Reviewer 2: 1. yes
2. major
3. yes
4. urn

> * Signed requests: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:1.0:signed`

Reviewer 8: Answers to @timcappalli questions
1. Yes
2. Major
3. Yes
4. urn

> * Signed requests: `urn:openid:protocol:openid4vp:1.0:signed`

Author: 1. yes
2. just major is fine
3. not sure (not opinionated)
4. urn sounds reasonable to achieve the goal
